TEXTA 
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
Computers today are far more than the number crunchers. Today, computers are used to 
store and manage information in the form of words, numbers, sounds, and pictures. With the 
invention of the computer, people began to see the potential for faster management of this 
information flow. Even though computers were at first used mainly for mathematical calculation, 
it wasn’t long before businesses began to understand how their ability to handle information could 
be used as a competitiveadvantage over other companies that had not yet computerized. Soon 
businesses were racing to convert information into forms that could be managed by computers.  
By computer science nowadays we mean the study of computers, including their design 
(architecture) and their uses for computations, data processing, and systems control. The field 
of computer science includes engineering activities such as the design of computers and of the 
hardware and software that make up computer systems. It also encompasses theoretical, 
mathematical activities, such as the design and analysis of algorithms, performance studies of 
systems and their components by means of techniques like queueing theory, and the estimation 
of the reliability and availability of systems by probabilistic techniques.  
Since computer systems are often too large and complicated to allow a designer to predict 
failure or success without testing, experimentation is incorporated into the development cycle. 
Computer science is generally considered a discipline separate from computer engineering, 
although the two disciplines overlap extensively in the area of computer architecture, which is 
the design and study of computer systems. 
The major subdisciplines of computer science have traditionally been (1) architecture, 
which includes all levels of hardware design, as well as the integration of hardware and software 
components to form computer systems; (2) software, which refers to the programs, or sets of 
instructions, that tell a computer how to carry out tasks, subdivided into software engineering, 
programming languages, operating systems, information systems and databases, artificial 
intelligence, and computer graphics; and (3) theory, which covers computational methods 
and numerical analysis on the one hand, and data structures and algorithms, on the other. 
Computer science has indirect relationships with virtually all disciplines that use 
computers. Applications developed in other fields often involve collaboration with computer 
scientists. In return, computer scientists get the opportunity to observe novel applications of 
computers, from which they gain a deeper insight into their usage. These relationships make 
computer science a highly interdisciplinary field of study. 
